{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}{\f1\fnil\fcharset2 Wingdings;}{\f2\fnil Calibri;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.14393}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs22\lang9 PROFESSIONAL SUMMARY:\par
\f1\'b7\f0  Certified AWS Solutions Architect with 8 years of experience as DevOps and Cloud Engineer\par
Experience solving complex problems with creative solutions, supporting development and operations environments.\par
Develop cloud solutions using IaaS (Infrastructure as a Service) and PaaS (Platform as a Service). \par
\f2 Developed python modules to automate processes in AWS (AWS cloud formations/ Ec2, boto API).\f0\par
\f1\'b7\f0  Designing and deploying dynamically scalable, highly available, fault tolerant, and reliable applications on AWS\par
\f1\'b7\f0   Extensive working experience with broad range of AWS Cloud Services like EC2, ELB, AutoScaling, VPC, Route53, RDS, S3, IAM, SNS, SQS, DynamoDB, Elasticsearch and CloudWatch and also have in-depth practical knowledge on other cloud services like Microsoft Azure and OpenStack \par
Provisioned AWS S3 buckets for backup of the application and sync these contents with remaining S3 backups, by creating entry for AWS S3 SYNC in crontab. \par
\f1\'b7\f0  Experience with migrating applications from customer on-premises datacenter to the cloud (AWS).\par
\f1\'b7\f0  Experience with AWS Cloud formation and launch configurations to automate repeatable provisioning of AWS resources for applications.\par
\f1\'b7\f0  Hands-on experience in deployment automation using Shell/Python Scripting with concentration on DevOps and CI/CD tools such as Jenkins, Bamboo, CruiseControl and GoCD integrating with build tools like Maven, Ant and Gradle\par
Experience in setting up Baselines, Branching, Merging and Automation Processes using Shell, Perl, Ruby, Python and Batch Scripts. \par
Extensively worked on Jenkins and Hudson by installing, configuring and maintaining for the purpose of Continuous Integration (CI) and for End-to-End automation for all build and deployments. \par
\f1\'b7\f0  Developed processes, tools, automation for Jenkins based software for build system and delivering Software Builds.\par
\f1\'b7\f0  Used Jenkins to automate most of the build related tasks.\par
\f1\'b7\f0  Set up CI (Continuous Integration) for major releases in Jenkins and Team City.\par
Experience in administering and supporting the Source Code Management using version controlling tools such as Git, Perforce, SVN, Clearcase on private repositories for the organization in GitHub / BitBucket \par
\f1\'b7\f0  Monitoring and troubleshooting production servers with Nagios\par
\f1\'b7\f0  Managed build results in Jenkins and deployed using workflows\par
Expertize in configuration and automation using leading tools in the industry such as Chef, Puppet, Ansible etc.\par
\f1\'b7\f0  Experience with configuration management tool chef for automatic configuration management/deployment integrated with Jenkins.\par
\f1\'b7\f0  Actively involved in architecture of DevOps platform and cloud solutions.\par
Expertise in creating Devops strategy in a mix environment of Linux (RHEL, CENTOS and UBUNTU) servers along with Amazon Web Services.\par
Configured DOCKER Containers for Branching purpose and deployed using Elastic Beanstalk. \par
Experience in implementing the Docker for wrapping up the final code and setting up development and testing environment using DockerHub, Docker Swarm and Docker Container Network \par
Experience in installing and configuring Linux/Unix/Windows-based web/App servers like Tomcat, JBOSS, WebLogic and WebSphere for Application deployments \par
\f1\'b7\f0  Experience in administering, installation, configuration, support and maintenance of Linux.\par
\f1\'b7\f0  Exposed to all aspects of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) such as Analysis, Planning, Developing, Testing and implementing and Post-production analysis of the projects.\par
Good command in working with Tracking Tools JIRA and IBM Rational Clear Quest. \par
Expertise in installing and configuring network infrastructure using routing and switching strategies, TCP/IP network services\par
\f1\'b7\f0  Excellent communicative, interpersonal, and intuitive and leadership skills with ability to work efficiently in both independent and team work environments.\par
Willing to relocate: Anywhere\par
\par
WORK EXPERIENCE:\par
La Quinta\f2\endash  Irving, TX - Oct 2016 \endash  Present\par
Role: AWS/DevOps Engineer\par
Responsibilities:\par
Creating the automated build and deployment process for application, re-engineering setup for better user experience, and leading up to building a continuous integration system for all our products\par
\f1\'b7\f0  Release Engineer for a team that involved different development teams and multiple simultaneous software releases.\par
\f1\'b7\f0  Focus on continuous integration and deployment, promoting Enterprise Solutions to target environments.\par
\f1\'b7\f0  Configured and automated the Jenkins Build jobs for Continuous Integration.\par
Implementing a Continuous Delivery framework using Jenkins, Chef, Maven & Nexus in Linux environment\par
Integrated Maven with Jenkins for the builds as the Continuous Integration process. \par
\f2 Using Jenkins AWS Code Deploy plugin to deploy to AWS \f0\par
Implemented AWS solutions using EC2, S3, RDS, EBS, Elastic Load Balancer, Auto scaling groups. \par
Configured S3 versioning and lifecycle policies to and backup files and archive files in Glacier. \par
Automation of OS builds and Application Installation through Chef. \par
\f2 Managed Cookbooks to automate system operations. \par
Working with Devops practices using AWS, Elastic Bean stalk and Docker with Kubernetes. \par
Integration of Maven/Nexus, Jenkins, Urban Code Deploy with Patterns/Release, Git, Confluence, JIRA and Cloud Foundry.\f0\par
\f1\'b7\f0  Launching Amazon EC2 Cloud Instances using Amazon Web Services (Linux/ Ubuntu) and Configuring launched instances with respect to specific applications.\par
\f1\'b7\f0  Defined AWS Security Groups which acted as virtual firewalls that controlled the traffic allowed to reach one or more AWS EC2 instances.\par
\f1\'b7\f0  Build servers using AWS which includes importing necessary volumes, launching the EC2 instance, creating security groups, auto-scaling, load balancers, Route 53 and SNS as per the architecture.\par
\f1\'b7\f0  Created elastic load-balancer (ELB) for different applications to provide high performance of applications.\par
\f1\'b7\f0  Worked with AWS IAM to generate new accounts, assign roles and groups.\par
\f1\'b7\f0  Worked on Multiple AWS instances, set the security groups, Elastic Load Balancer and AMIs, Auto scaling to design cost effective, fault tolerant and highly available systems.\par
\f1\'b7\f0  Involved in Configuring and Networking of Virtual Private Cloud (VPC).\par
\f1\'b7\f0  Developed CloudFormation scripts to automate EC2 instances and created CloudFormation templates and deployed AWS resources using it.\par
\f1\'b7\f0  Created CloudWatch alerts for instances and used them in Auto-scaling launch configurations.\par
\f1\'b7\f0  Created an AWS RDS MySQL DB cluster and connected to the database through an Amazon RDS MySQL DB Instance using the Amazon RDS Console.\par
\f1\'b7\f0  Bootstrapping instances using Chef and integrating with auto scaling.\par
\f1\'b7\f0  Manage the integration of new software projects and products into the build environment.\par
\f1\'b7\f0  Worked with product development to resolve build-related issues in all projects.\par
Troubleshoot the build issue during the Jenkins build process.\par
Resolved system issues and inconsistencies in coordination with quality assurance and engineering teams. \par
\f1\'b7\f0  Managed the Version control systems which includes Subversion (SVN), GIT and GITHUB.\par
\f1\'b7\f0  Installed, configured the web servers like HTTP Web Server, Apache Web Server and WebSphere Application Server on Red Hat Linux.\par
Environment: Jenkins, GIT, Maven, AWS EC2, S3, VPC, RDS, Dynamo DB, IAM, Cloud Watch, Shell Scripting, Subversion, Apache Tomcat, Nexus, Chef Automation, Kubernetes, Chef Cookbooks, Load Balancers, Cloud Watch,UNIX, Linux and Windows.\par
\par
CocaCola\f2\endash  Atlanta, GA - Dec 2015 \endash  June 2016\par
Role: AWS Engineer\par
Responsibilities:\par
\f1\'b7\f0  Developed and implemented Software Release Management strategies for various applications according to the agile process.\par
Interacted with client teams to understand client deployment requests. \par
\f1\'b7\f0  Used Jenkins as a part of continuous integration tool for automation of daily process.\par
\f1\'b7\f0  Configured and monitored the nightly auto deploy builds in Jenkins for the DEV and QA teams.\par
\f1\'b7\f0  Involved in creating VPC, IAM users, EC2 instances, EBS, S3 resources.\par
\f1\'b7\f0  Build servers using AWS which includes importing necessary volumes, launching the EC2 instance, creating security groups, auto-scaling, load balancers, Route 53 and SNS as per the architecture.\par
\f1\'b7\f0  Implemented AWS High-Availability using AWS Elastic Load Balancing (ELB), which performed a balance across instances in multiple Availability Zones.\par
Implement the supporting platform for Open Stack infrastructure on the cloud that all services and applications will rely upon. \par
\f2 Deploying the Open stack components on multimode with High availability environment. Configuring the Open Stack keystone, glance, cinder, swift. \par
Created and managed Cinder volumes, instances and configured network in Open Stack Cloud by using both CLI and Horizon dashboard. \par
Involved in monitoring and metering for Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS) for Open Stack Cloud. \par
Implemented auto environment creation using puppet and Open Stack. \par
Utilized Puppet to automate single-command provisioning for development and production environments for an operation tools startup. \f0\par
\f1\'b7\f0  Managed Ubuntu, Linux and Windows virtual servers on AWS EC2.\par
\f1\'b7\f0  Responsible for design and maintenance of the Subversion/GIT Repositories, views, and the access control strategies.\par
\f1\'b7\f0  Responsible for setup and troubleshooting activities for Automation using Jenkins\par
\f1\'b7\f0  Used JIRA for Issue tracking and scrum/agile planning.\par
\f1\'b7\f0  Configured/Integrated Jenkins with Git to poll codes and Maven to push artifacts to AWS S3.\par
\f1\'b7\f0  Configured AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) Groups and Users for improved login authentication.\par
\f1\'b7\f0  Deployed cloud stack using AWS OpWorks\par
\f1\'b7\f0  Automated deployment activities with AWS cloudformation.\par
\f1\'b7\f0  Migrated applications to the AWS cloud\par
Wrote playbooks for Ansible and deploying applications using Ansible. \par
\f2 Worked on Docker container snapshots, attaching to a running container, removing images, managing directory structures and managing containers. \par
Experience working on several Docker components like Docker Engine, Hub, machine, compose and Docker registry. \par
Experience working on Docker Hub, creating Docker images and handling multiple images primarily for middleware installations and domain configurations. \f0\par
\f1\'b7\f0  Created bash and shell scripts to automate some of the services required in the environment.\par
\f1\'b7\f0  Managed the public cloud environment and installed modules using puppet.\par
Provided installation & maintenance of Puppet infrastructure and developed Puppet recipe &modules for configuration management. \par
Performed system administration and operations tasks using Chef. \par
\f1\'b7\f0  Monitored the server performance, CPU Utilization and disk usage using CloudWatch and raising alarm in case of emergency\par
\f1\'b7\f0  Configured AWS S3 and their lifecycle policies and to backup files and archive files in Amazon Glacier.\par
\f1\'b7\f0  Utilized EBS to store repeated data and overcome failure by using Snapshots.\par
Created JIRA issues to prioritize and take an action on what's important, and stayed up to date with what's going on around the project. \par
Environment: Jenkins, Subversion (SVN), GIT, ANT, MAVEN, Chef, Puppet, EC2, S3, Dynamo DB, IAM, Cloud front, Route 53, Shell Scripts, UNIX, VMware,Openstack, Tomcat, Docker, JIRA\par
\par
Blue Cross Blue Shield - Richardson, TX - Aug 2015 to Nov 2015\par
Role: AWS/DevOps Engineer\par
Responsibilities:\par
\f1\'b7\f0  Implemented AWS solutions using EC2, S3, RDS, EBS, Elastic Load Balancer, Auto scaling groups.\par
Launching Amazon EC2 cloud instances using Amazon Machine Images for AWS cloud. \par
\f2 Binding elastic IP's to Amazon EC2 instances. \par
Created volumes and attach volumes on to EC2 instances. \par
Created Elastic Load Balancer (ELB) to distribute incoming application traffic across Amazon EC2 instances. \par
Used Amazon S3 for multipart upload of data and to host static web content in AWS Cloud. \par
Provided highly durable and available data by using S3 data store, versioning, lifecycle policies, and create AMIs for mission critical production servers for backup. \par
Created Virtual Private Cloud, Internet gateway, subnet and route tables using Amazon VPC. \par
Create, manage, and delete users and groups as per the request using Amazon Identity and Access Management (IAM). \par
Setting alarms on metrics for EC2 instances using CloudWatch. \par
Created Stacks using Amazon CloudFormation templates to launch AWS Infrastructure and resources.\f0\par
\f1\'b7\f0  Responsible for Design of different Release Environments for new projects.\par
Built Continuous Integration environment Jenkins and Continuous delivery environment. \par
\f2 Utilized Configuration Management tool, Chef & created Chef Cookbooks using recipes to automate system operations. \par
Written and modified various Cookbooks/Recipes to manage configurations of EC2 instances.\par
Managed version control tool Git to version code changes to help developers/programmers branch/merge/revert code. \par
Designed AWS Cloud Formation templates to create custom sized VPC, subnets, NAT to ensure successful deployment of Web applications and database templates. \f0\par
\f1\'b7\f0  Implemented new projects builds framework using Jenkins and maven as build framework.\par
\f1\'b7\f0  Implemented a Continuous Delivery framework using Jenkins, Maven in Linux environment\par
\f1\'b7\f0  Integration of Maven/Nexus, Jenkins, Urban Code Deploy with Patterns/Release, GIT, JIRA\par
\f1\'b7\f0  Defining Release Process Policy for projects early in SDLC.\par
\f1\'b7\f0  Responsible for nightly and weekly builds for different modules.\par
\f1\'b7\f0  Responsible for code build, release and configuration.\par
\f1\'b7\f0  Optimized volumes and EC2 instances.\par
\f1\'b7\f0  Created multi AZ VPC instances.\par
\f1\'b7\f0  Used IAM to create new accounts, roles and groups.\par
\f1\'b7\f0  Configured S3 versioning and lifecycle policies to backup files and archive files in Glacier\par
\f1\'b7\f0  Configured Elastic Load Balancers (ELB) with EC2 Auto scaling groups\par
\f1\'b7\f0  Created monitors, alarms and notifications for EC2 hosts using Cloud Watch\par
\f1\'b7\f0  Migrated applications to the AWS cloud\par
\f1\'b7\f0  Worked with different team members for automation of Release components.\par
\f1\'b7\f0  Scripting in multiple languages on UNIX, LINUX and Windows - Batch, Shell script etc.\par
\f1\'b7\f0  Troubleshoot the build issue during the Jenkins build process.\par
\f1\'b7\f0  Resolved system issues and inconsistencies in coordination with quality assurance and engineering teams.\par
Environment: AWS (EC2, VPC, ELB, S3, RDS, CloudFront, Cloud Trail and Route 53), Jenkins, Maven, Linux, GIT, Nagios, Chef, VPC, Cloudwatch, Cloud Formation, AWS CLI, AWS Auto Scaling, Apache, Maven, Unix/Linux, Shell scripting.\par
\par
Polaris Financial Technology Ltd - Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh - May 2012 \f2\endash  July 2014\par
Role: Build and Release Engineer\par
Responsibilities:\par
\f1\'b7\f0  Managed build process and document configuration and deployment instructions.\par
\f1\'b7\f0  Coordinated release process with Engineers to ensure on-time product delivery.\par
\f1\'b7\f0  Configured, managed and controlled the source code repository.\par
\f1\'b7\f0  Configured Jenkins for integrated source control, builds, testing, and deployment.\par
\f1\'b7\f0  Maintained automated build system like Maven implement new features or scripts for the build system.\par
\f1\'b7\f0  Executed the Maven builds locally to troubleshoot Java code issues and merging related issues.\par
\f1\'b7\f0  Be in charge of our source control system and the build process.\par
\f1\'b7\f0  Developed &amp; generated Build summary reports and send to leadership team.\par
\f1\'b7\f0  Responsible for maintaining project software, Project documentation and hardware inventory.\par
\f1\'b7\f0  Maintained TOMCAT Application server.\par
\f1\'b7\f0  Produced builds of products for use in testing and in production.\par
\f1\'b7\f0  Identified and implemented process to strengthen, streamline the build process and handled deployment issues.\par
\f1\'b7\f0  Tracked and maintained the projects change requests, impact assessments and reporting.\par
\f1\'b7\f0  Administrated and worked with multiple project teams to develop shared processes, optimize the usage and configuration of JIRA and provide technical leadership and tool development.\par
\f1\'b7\f0  Provided daily status for software builds and deployments in agile standup meetings.\par
\f1\'b7\f0  Provided weekly status reports to the Project manager.\par
\f1\'b7\f0  Assisted Project Manager to update error and track defects in production.\par
Environment: Jenkins, GIT, Maven, Tomcat, JIRA\par
}
 